It's time to look at how CrateDB
can be used to provide
insights into fast moving
continuous streams of data.
I'll then also show you how to
use data stored in other
databases in your CrateDB
queries with foreign data
wrappers.
Let's begin with streaming.
A data stream is a continuous
flow.
There's no defined beginning or
end to it.
Data arrives constantly, usually
as the result of events
happening in a system.
Some examples being a user
clicking on a website, a new
entry being created in an
application log, or perhaps a
sense of providing an updated
reading.
Streaming data is often time
sensitive in nature because data
is continuously arriving.
Insights from the stream are
best obtained using aggregations
or queries over a rolling time
window.
CrateDB's ability to ingest and
index data at high speed, along
with its flexible schemas make
it ideal as a database for
working with streaming data.
Specialised software is often
used to manage data streams.
Let's take a look at an example
with one of the most popular
open source streaming packages.
Apache Kafka is an extremely
popular open source event
streaming platform.
Its Connect interface integrates
with hundreds of event sources
which create events and syncs
where event data is ultimately
stored for long term analysis.
Events are received by Kafka and
published onto different message
topics.
Consumers subscribe to these
topics, receive message events
and perform processing on them.
This processing may be performed
by other specialised frameworks.
For example, here Apache Flink.
Event data can be inserted into
CrateDB using the Kafka Connect
JDBC driver via Flink or other
logic in your consumer code.
CrateDB is excellent in certain
indexing performance means that
this time critical data is
available to query in near real
time.
This is critical to gaining
insights and making timely
decisions when working with this
sort of system.
From here you can use the power
of CrateDB's scalable SQL
engine to aggregate and analyse
the data, combine it with
metadata or data from other
sources.
Dashboards and alerting
mechanisms can be built using
standard tools and these can
provide a continuous near real
time feedback loop enabling
adjustments to be made that
affect or influence the incoming
event streams.
Foreign Data Wrappers are a way
of handling access to remote
data from SQL databases.
They are part of the SQL
Management of External Data
standard.
They allow you to write queries
that combine data stored in
CrateDB with data in external
databases without the need for
ETL processors.
CrateDB's foreign data wrapper
implementation uses JDBC and
allows you to connect to remote
Postgres databases.
When querying data in a foreign
database, clauses such as GROUP BY
and LIMIT are executed in CrateDB.
Let's see how this works in
practice.
Here I've set up a Postgres
instance on Neon's platform
online.
I've created a new table called
taxi_drivers and populated it
with the sample data you see on
the screen.
I've also created a user named
crate to access this data.
Let's connect to this database
from CrateDB and query it using
the foreign data wrapper.
Switching over to CrateDB,
the first step in configuring a
foreign data wrapper is to
create a server definition.
Here I'm providing the
connection URL for the foreign
Postgres instance and naming it
pg_server using the CREATE
SERVER command.
The next step is to map a user
in CrateDB to a user in the
foreign database.
Create USER MAPPING tells CrateDB
that for the server pg_server
the user crate has the given
password.
Now we have to create a foreign
table definition in CrateDB.
The schema of this table must
match the schema of the table we
want to query in the remote
instance.
And we also tell CrateDB which
server to find this table on and
the name of the schema
containing it there.
We're ready to start querying
data in the remote Postgres
instance using the foreign data
wrapper.
This straightforward SELECT
query does just that, and here
are the results of executing it.
Remember, the data here resides
in the remote post res instance.
It hasn't been duplicated into a
table in CrateDB.
The foreign data wrapper is
great for aggregating data from
other databases into CrateDB
for analytics and reporting.
You can of course join data in
foreign tables with data in
tables that reside in CrateDB
performing cross database
joints, and you can access
foreign data without the time
and storage requirements
associated with ETL processes.
Finally, you could use the
foreign data wrapper as part of
a migration from another
database into CrateDB.
You should now have a high level
understanding of how streaming
data can be brought into CrateDB
and how data residing in
other databases can be used in
queries without duplication.
To learn more about these
topics, consult the resources
associated with this video and
the online CrateDB
documentation.